# CLI drogue-cloud administration client

Spec out a CLI tool that helps administrate a drogue-cloud instance. 

## Overview 

The command line interface should be an administration tool to help users set up their drogue cloud environnement. 
It should follow the same style as `kubectl` does. 
This is a basic tool to manage devices and apps, interacting with the device registry API. 

## Name !
Proposals : 
* droguecli
* drgcli
* drgctl
* dat
* idiot


## Scopes and motivation

Providing a simple to use cli client that simplify the use of the device registry API. In essence this is a sugar-coated curl client to ease the process of creating devices and apps in drogue-cloud. In the future this may be replaced by a nice web console. 

App management : create, list, delete.
Device management : create, read, update, delete, list.

The intended user is the devices admin. The cluster admin (that deploys and maintains drogue on the k8s cluster) will create credentials in the SSO provider. Such credentials can be used in the droguectl tool.

Deploying a complete drogue-cloud in a blank kubernetes cluster is a nice feature that could be added in the future. This tool could be used to manage a drogue-cloud deployment. But this is considered out of scope for v1.

### Proposed Usage

The general syntax is : `toolname $verb $resource $parameters`.


#### App operations


```
drgctl get apps
```
outputs:
```
myApp
yourApp
ourApp
theirApp
```

``` 
drgctl get app myApp
```
outputs:
```
{
   "name": "myApp"
   "info": "This is jb's app !",
   "aliases": ["theonlytrueapp", "theAppToRuleThemApps"]
}
```

Now let's write stuff: 

``` 
drgctl create app hisApp
```
outputs:
```
{
   "name": "hisApp"
   "info": "",
   "aliases": []
}
```

``` 
drgctl delete app hisApp
```
outputs:
```
deleting app "hisApp"....
app "hisApp" deleted.
```

Add and delete trust anchors
```
dat create trustanchor <anchorID> --app=<app> --file=/path/to/pubkey 

dat delete trustanchor <anchorID> --app=<app>
```


#### Device operations


```
drgctl get devices 
#or
drgctl get devices --app=yourApp
```
outputs:
```
kitchenOven
bathroomThermometer
bedroomLight
DogCollar
```

``` 
drgctl get device kitchenOven --app=yourApp
```
outputs:
```
{
    metadata:{
        "application":"yourApp",
        "name":"kitchenOven"
   },
   spec:{
      "info": "This is the kitchen temp !",
      "credentials":{
          "credentials":[{"pass":topsecret"}]
      }
  }
}
```

``` 
drgctl delete device kitchenOven --app=yourApp
```
outputs:
```
device "kitchenOven" deleted.
```

``` 
drgctl edit device kitchenOven --app=yourApp 
```
spawns a vi to edit the resource as kubectl does.


*Note:* that makes a lot of `--app` ao it would be cool to have something like `droguectl config set-context --app=myApp` ?


Manage devices ceretificates :
```
dat create certificate --app=<app> --device=<device>
dat delete certificate --device=<device>  --app=<app>
```

### Misc

* Save and load a state. e.g. setting credentials so they can be reused un subsequent calls. i.e. `kubectl` remembers the URL of the cluster. A file could be used to store URL and token : 

```
~/.drogue-cloud-config.json
{
    url: "sandbox.drogue.cloud",
    token: "jfhglkjfkasdhfkjshflkjshflkjshflkjashf",
    defaultApp: "myApp"
}
```
To log in : 
```
drgctl login sandbox.drogue.cloud -u jib
# password prompted
```
If login is successful the configuration will be saved.

the config file path can be loaded from the `DROGUECONFIG` env variable. 

### Nice to have

* a nice `--help` or `-h` option.
* plural support to list resources. 
* Supporting shortands commands. e.g. `drg create dev mydevice` expanding into `drg create device mydevice`.
* ZSH autocompletion plugin !


### Future additions
